>> Will Sentance: We're interacting with the world outside of JavaScript now, so we're going to need some rules.So to do so, we're going to walk through this code where we declare our print hello,we're going to have a function that I'm not going to write the body of,and actually, for folk who do go and experiment with this code,it is very, very important that this block for one sec is doing something that takes a significant amountof time within our single thread of JavaScript.What could we use? Chris, what could we use to take a significant amount of time within a single threadmaybe block for a secondA for loop, a forloop. But by the way, people, that for loop's going to need to be like, you know, doing a lotof stuff. They're very optimized engines at this point,so your for loop's going to really need to be clever to even take a second.But you can come up with something that could take a second natively.Maybe it's some sort of mathematics, you're doing the for loop, something recursive, but it's going totake some real computationally taxing stuff at this point to block for a minute,for a full second, but that's what that function's going to do.We're then going, so we define those two, we're going to first actual execution,run, set, timeout, and this time, we're going to pass in 0 milliseconds.So Tenzin's question might very soon be answered.We're then going to call that block for 1 second within JavaScript land.It's going to block within JavaScript for a full second and presumablyPrint hello is just goingto bounce back onto the call stack as soon as it's ready within that block for one sec.That's my, that is my, that is my no voice,isn't it? Alright, good. So let's walk through this code line by line,people, and it should hopefully illuminate that we must have some additional rules or structuresto deal with speaking to an environment, speaking to stuff outside of our very crisp,predictable environment. In fact, we do want to recognize that that's our underlyinggoal in programming, even if we have, when we're dealing with an outsideworld, things get unpredictable, right?You make a request to the network, it may take 10 milliseconds,100 milliseconds, it may never respond, it may respond with someother information. So many different things can go on.That is very, very different to our pure JavaScript,where unless something's broken, it is going to do every single line one after another until it's finisheddoing those lines. Everything is at least incredible and we do want predictability when we're writingcode, so we're going to see that predictability goal is so important thatthe rules we have for code coming back in and being,or sorry, stuff outside of the browser having an influence back in,sorry, stuff outside of JavaScript having an influence back into JavaScriptWe're going to need somepretty prescriptive rules, we're going to need something that might even seem a bit overlyprescriptive, but at least it means we can always predict ultimately the order of our code executionAnd as always, we startoff in our JavaScript land.And we have our global memory here, which is going to be drawnwith a straight line, for once, there we go.But now, and we have our call stack.Here it is. Which is going to keep track of what JavaScript code we're running,then we're going to have our thread of execution.But now, people, what, Chris, do I add that I didn't have beforeWhat's my new part ofmy code below and outside of JavaScript land going to be called?The web browser features, or we tend to call them the webbrowser APIs because we access them, we interface with them from within JavaScript.The I stands for interface.OK, good, so into our code we go,and the first thing we're going to declare, Joe, you're up,give me my first two function declarations here.We're going to define a function called print hello.Yep. And then we are going to define a function definition for a function called block for one secBlock for one sec, whichwe are not going to write out the body of that code, so to be really clear,people, we're going to need to actually add some code there if we were running this directly,but we don't need to fit it on the screen here, but it would be doing something like a loopNext we hit our facadefunction call, or if you want to be correct and fancy about it,we hit our call to a web browser API or web browser feature,this one being via setTimeout, therefore this one being what,Joe? Timer. The timer. And we're going to pass to it,what, Joe? Two arguments. The first, the function definition,print hello. Beautiful, the function definition, right?Are we calling print hello at this moment? No, we are 100% not,exactly. We're just passing the definition and the second,the value of 0. Yes, which represents, because we know this in looking at setTimeout docs.Yeah, sorry, I talked over, you say that again, sorry, Joe.Yeah, 0 milliseconds, Joe said 0 milliseconds exactly.SetTimeout, Michael. Does it have consequences in JavaScript that we're interested in?No, where does it have consequences? In the browser.In the browser. And so I'm going to do my little Chrome logo,forgive me for that, no favoritism here, and turn on a timer downhere in the web browser with the all-important informationbeing, also, by the way, did we notice how nice and straight Michael's line was and how nicely drawnthe arrowhead was? Yeah, I know, what a way to show up my,it is perhaps misguided for someone who has at best flawed handwriting,at worst terrible handwriting, to be so committed to a blackboard.Never mind, so our 0 milliseconds gets thrown into our background work in theweb browser, where we're doing, we turn on our timer and set it to 0 milliseconds.We know that when we're finished, we can say, and let's just say on completion,but you know, when we're finished, we aregoing to want to run what function, Joe?Sorry, block for one sec.What? When we're finished running our timer, on the timer for what's the function we passed into thetimer? Print hello. Print hello, perfect.Excellent, there it is, the print hello function definition.What did I forget? Time is passing in this world now,so at 0 milliseconds, we have, well, here's the question.Almost a trick question. Tenzin at 0 milliseconds, is our 0 millisecond timer complete?Not yet. To be fair, I've noticed every time I ask this, people think no,but at 0 milliseconds, is a 0 millisecond timer complete?I guess so. Yeah, I guess so, exactly, it's complete.It is absolutely complete. So presumably, our print hello functiongets thrown right back onto ourcall stack, it's ready to go, it's ready to run.And yet, it certainly does not.Let's just make sure we have our console in here as well.It certainly does not. What the heck is happening?Our print hello function is ready to run, it should be added straight back on the call stack,right? It's a 0 millisecond timer, it's complete.Exactly as Tenzin said, it is complete in the background.OK, I'm not going to beat around the bush because why would I?It turns out, people, we have another feature that we need forthis interaction between an outside world and the JavaScript engine that sits as an interfacebetween the two. It is going to be something called the callback or taskqueue, and it is into there that our print hello function goesat 0 milliseconds. At 0 milliseconds, even though it was immediatelyset up to run after 0 milliseconds, it cannot come back on the call stack,we'll see why in a moment. Instead it's going to be added here,print hello, it's going to go and sit and wait in this queueSit and wait in thisqueue for, well, we'll see what in a moment,and we though, for now, plow straight on and at 1 millisecond,and we're sort of just being ordinal here, we're just talking about the order of 0,1, 1's after, not per se, actually a millisecond later, it'll be much less than that.We're going to hit the call to what function, Chris?Block for 1 second. Block for1 sec and we're going to execute it, and we're going to create, we're going to add it to thecall stack, block for one sec.And we're going to create everyone together, a brand newexecution context. Into it our thread goes.Maybe I should do the thread in green, no, we'll do the thread in, 'cause that's time, isn't it?We'll do the thread in white, 'cause it's a JavaScript thread, and into it we go where we are goingto run for 1000 milliseconds some sort of for loop.We don't know what it's going to do, but it's doing it very much in JavaScript, which means it can'tbe a very long task because JavaScript literally doesn't let us do any very long tasks directly in JavaScriptIt has to be lots of tiny tasksmeaning like a for loopSo like doing lots andlots of things very, very many times. That's what we're doing inside of here,maybe some sort of loop.And I guess at any moment in that, our print hello is going,excuse me, excuse me, you know, you're doing a,can I come back on?Do we think that our print hello is allowed back on the call stack during that block for one secfunction call? Absolutely not. After 1000 milliseconds, weare now back out into global at 1,001 millisecondsand so we are goingto pop block for 1 second off thecall stack. Off it comes, off it pops, and we're back in the global.Now, presumably print hello is allowed back on the call stack.What do people think? No, no.No, exactly. Instead at 1,001 milliseconds, what?Chris is going to be executed. Console, consolelog. Me first, and there at 1,001 millisecondsWe get the me firstin our console. And nowfinally, at 1,002 milliseconds, whatfinally will be added back to our callstack? Tenzin, what do you think?It's the print hello. It's the print hello.It gets dequeued and gets added to ourcall stack. Brand new execution context for it.There it is, call it, and what does it do at 1,002 milliseconds?Oh, this is when I start to get tired from running around the board and changing my,it console logs. Hello. Oh my goodness.We have perhaps the strictest rule.What do we think our rule is?Yeah, Joe? Callback queue doesn't run until the end of the global queue is finished.Until all of our global, not just until stuff on the call stack is finishedexecuting, definitely that, but until all of our global code is finished running.And I'll be honest, I almost, when I first did this,I almost couldn't believe, you know, you could have a million console logs,and still, everything would be left until after.But it comes back to this fundamental idea that we want predictability.And if predictability is all global code must be done before we ever run anything out of the callbackqueue, at least that means we can be confident that all global code will be run,and at no point might something jump back in.It is a strict rule, but it is a fundamental rule.