>> Will Sentance: Alright, good stuff people, now we have done all of our background work setup.I think it's fair to say, and so now in our synchronous JavaScript thread,we hit what line after assigning or after attaching our displayfunction using then. Tenzin we hit what line in JavaScript.I believe it's the block for the block for 300 milliseconds,exactly, and this people, is a regular old function,so it's a brand new what Tenzin?Execution context, execution context, it's going to be added to thecall stack. There it is, block for 300 milliseconds,and into it we go for 300 milliseconds.Do I want to go, so 300 301, 300, 23334,yeah, I think I'm going to say, so at 2 milliseconds I guess, I'm just.I guess it's the next thing in line, we're going to go inside a block for 300 milliseconds,that is going to run there in JavaScript for 300 milliseconds via a loop or some otherthing where we're doing lots of small tasks for a very long time.That's the only way we can block in thread.While we're in there, Well, actually, sorry, I feel very bad.Print hello. I'm so, feel so bad for Print hello.Was Print hello allowed back on the call stack before we ran Block for 300 milliseconds?Event loop says no. Event loop says no, exactly.Almost a reference to a famous British comedy.Exactly, it was not allowed back on at 2 milliseconds.No, instead we hit our block for 300 milliseconds.I'm so sorry, I assumed that. Like, actually, hello, it's like, excuse me.I wanna come back on, but is it allowed?Event loop says no, because there's still synchronous global code to run.And now there's something on the call stack, so event loop continues to say no.But while this foreground work in JavaScript is happening,you won't believe what's happening back in ourweb browser. But at about 270 milliseconds.What comes back but ourresponse data from TikTok. Now in practice, this data will come back and we'll need to do some JSON parsingon it to extract the actual thing we want, not the headers,or if you want the headers, the headers.But we're just going to keep it fairly simple.Well, firstly, at 270 milliseconds, therefore, we have.Completed? I should have asked, have you completed?Yes, yes, exactly. And what data do we get back?Well, we actually got a bunch of information about the request,the headers, information about what we've, about TikTok's server,other background info, but in practice, we're just going to make use here for now of the nameof our favorite latest video, which is going to be our cute puppies,that we're going to do in purple. Cute.Puppy, there it is, our cute puppy string,that's what we got back, the name of our most recent favorite video.And at that moment. What happens, we're in the middle of block for 300milliseconds. At that moment. We can update our futuredata result. I'm going to add a caveat for that in a moment, but for now,at that moment, we now have our data back.What do we do on completion? At 270 milliseconds,we are going to update our future data result value with our cute puppyThere it is, our cutepuppy. OK, which means our display function is ready togo. Hooray! Where will it be queued up,people? Of course, well done.You're all going to be completely wrong, but, but,yes, where else would it go? Into the callback queue, let's put it there.Ready, behind, print, hello. It was added there at 270 milliseconds.There it is. And because display is now ready to run,right, because the result value came in and display auto runs,ready to go, but it can't go on the callback queue immediately because we're still stuck here.We're at 270 milliseconds, we're in the middle of the block for 300 milliseconds still.We've got 2 things in the queue, we are finished with running for blocks for 300milliseconds, we're outside of it now, we hit 302 milliseconds,we pop. Blocked for 300 milliseconds off the callstack, and. What do we hit as our next task?Well, presumably we go to ourcallback queue. No, no, no. Well done, everyone.Where do we go first, Chris?Console.log, me first, good oldme first, at least it gave us a clue with its name.And therefore, at 302 milliseconds, we got our mefirst in our console. OK, but now we hitour 303 milliseconds in JavaScript.And now I assume our poor print hello that was set to run after 0 milliseconds,all the way back at the top here, now it gets to go on the call stack.Right, everybody? Should be right, and yetIn fact, display gets togo on the call stack first.With our input of cute puppy.Cute puppy. Poor old print hello, hm, what is going onhere? I'm going to decide what I'm going to say in a second.Display passing. Cute puppy.There it is, and what does display do, a brand new everyone together.That's execution. I see the context, beautiful.Into it we go, where our data parameter on display,Chris, is given what argument automatically.Notice JavaScript added those parentheses.We didn't add those parentheses, when we passed display into future data dot then we just say the definitionBut when it's called, itautomatically adds parentheses and automatically puts the input of the data in.So what is our argument?Cute puppy going to be assigned to inside of the data core.Oh, to data, perfect. And there it is.Data is cute puppy in our local memory,and we console log data, which is to say,at 303 milliseconds. We consolelog. Cute. Puppy.But this makes no sense. I know how a queue works.I take the first thing in.Is that right? Yeah, the first thing in is the first thing out.That's right, isn't it? Yeah, the first thing in is the first thing out, not the last thing.Can anyone make an intuitive guess at where or what might have actually happened here?Where do we think display might have actually been added,if not, well, OK. Anyone make a guess, Chris, you wanna give a guess?A different queue. Let's give him a hand.Well done, Chris. An incisive insight from Chris.People, the callback queue, sometimes known as a task queue,is just one, at least within the web browser, of our two important queues,we have a second queue, themicrotask queue. And into that.Into that goes all functions that are deferred,by being, to be run later, by being added to promise objects,they never go into the callback queue.It never went, display never went in there.Display went into the microtask queue.There it is, into the microtask queue at its completion of 270 millisecondswhen our data came backand the display function was added to our queue at 270 millisecondsThere it is in themicrotask queue. And what might you think the event loop prioritizes as its queue toalways check first, Chris? The microtask queue always getsthat priority, we always check it first. So when the event loop saw that we had finished running globalcode with our console log me first, at 303 milliseconds,it did not go to the callback queue where Print hello had been sitting since 0 milliseconds,since the very start, and when, checked the microtask queue where display had just rocked up only 32milliseconds, 33 milliseconds earlier, and it said, don't panic,you're my priority, and it grabbed display, put it on the call stack,passed in our cute puppy data as our argument,and there we had a new execution context and displayed cute puppy,at which point display was now no longer in the microtask queue,was popped off the call stack, popped off the callstack. And finally, at 304Milliseconds. What do we thinkthe event loop Chris finally said, I'm going to look at you and give you some timePrint hello, Print hello, andprint hello was added to ourcall stack at 304 milliseconds, when it had hoped to be run at after0 milliseconds. It had to wait all the way through until 304milliseconds when print hello was finally executed, and what thereforeChris, at 304 milliseconds wasdisplayed in our console, hello, helloOh my goodness.For one thing, by the way, I gotta say, John is going to love our beautiful,colorful whiteboard, blackboard here, but wow, it turns out that we don't justhave one queue. And our promises, our promise deferred functionality attached to a promiseto only be run automatically when some background work completes and the value property is updated,it gets precedence. It gets put into a separate queue known as the microtask queue,and that that queue is checked first.The event loop, as it does it checks every time is global finish,is global finish, is global finish, it is.Don't go first to the callback queue, go first to the microtask queue,which is where display by being promise object deferred was being queued.Once that was done, now finally, JavaScript's engine,the event loop checked, or the event loop, sorry, checked our callback.